Name: Kaylee Bigelow
Date: November 3, 2020

Assignment 2 - Part 2

AWS’ ec2 dashboard allows for users to create instances by only a few clicks of a button as they 
walk you through the steps to create your own ec2 instance. These steps are very useful to those 
who do not know what exactly they want out of their instance or just need a basic setup. When 
compared to my script it does not allow as much functionality to be put in place with a single 
step. The AWS console does not allow for the creation of anything internal to the instance (such 
as docker images). My script allows for more specification from the user; however, it requires 
the user to have knowledge on AWS ec2 instances prior to running the script.

Another feature AWS has for launching ec2 instances is CloudFormation. CloudFormation allows the 
user to create ec2 instances using a template much like my script. It allows for the installation 
of applications directly onto the ec2 instances without having to SSH into the instance. As well, 
it allows for the configuration of applications along with the ability to start them up. When 
compared to my program the functionality is very similar as if the user wants to install or start 
applications, they can add these steps into the bash script that they provide. The knowledge 
needed for both my script and CloudFormation is the same, one must know what they are selecting 
and what is required to start their ec2 instances correctly.

To monitor your ec2 instances one can use the AWS’ feature called CloudWatch. CloudWatch allows 
for the creation of alarms, events, and the ability see logs. This monitoring is much more advanced 
than the monitor script that I created, as it allows the user to see everything my script displays 
plus more on a nice console that guides the user in the creation of alarms and events. CloudWatch 
will show the user health status, instance state, instance metric details, volume metric details, 
and much more that auto update based on events that take place inside your instance.

Overall AWS has many different services that help the user in the creation and monitoring of their 
ec2 instances. The ec2 dashboard is helpful for a new user of AWS as it is the simplest to understand 
and use. CloudFormation is a great feature for a user who does not want to build their own script 
like mine. CloudFormation has many similarities to my launch script and both require the same 
knowledge of ec2 instances to use. Finally, CloudWatch monitoring is a great tool to see and check on 
your ec2 instances. It has a lot more features than my monitor script, plus it allows the user to make 
alarms so they can get notified if something has gone wrong with their instance. 
